---
category: Retrieving Query Result Information
apipath: '/exec/getf'
title: 'Get one or more field values from PGresult'
type: 'GETF'

layout: null
---

 GETF gets one or more field values from PGresult using a scanf style
 interface (see http://libpqtypes.esilo.com/man3/PQgetf.html)

 Usage: varargout=pgmex('getf',pgResult,fieldSpecStr,varargin)

 INPUT:
   regular:
     pgResult: uint32 or uint64 [1,1] - query result, a C pointer to a
         PGresult structure

     fieldSpecStr: char - specification for types of fields
   variable:
     fieldNum1: double [1,1] or char - field number or field name of first
         field to get
       Note!: field numeration starts with zero (0)!

     ...
     fieldNumN: double [1,1] or char - field number or field name of N-th
         field to get
       Note!: field numeration starts with zero (0)!

   properties:
     isUniformOutput: logical [1,1] - if this parameter is true (default),
         then this function returns values of scalar fields concatenated
         into an array instead of cell array wherever possible.

 OUTPUT:
   optional:
     fieldValue1: struct [1,1] - values of first field to get (for the
         format of this structure see notes below)
     ...
     fieldValueN: struct [1,1] - values of N-th field to get (for the
         format of this structure see notes below)

 Notes:
   1) the structures fieldValue1,...,fieldValueN have the following
     fields:
         valueVec: vector [nTuples,1] of some type;
         isNullVec: vector [nTuples,1] of some type;
         isValueNullVec: vector [nTuples,1] of logical
     If isUniformOutput is false, then in any case both valueVec and
     isNullVec are cell arrays [nTuples,1], such that cells of valueVec
     contain values of corresponding fields while cells of isNullVec are
     logical matrices determinining whether these values are Null or not.
     If isUniformOutput is true, then the format described above for
     valueVec and isNullVec is valid only for fields with non-scalar
     values, for fields with scalar values valueVec is simple (not cell)
     array [nTuples,1] of these values while isNullVec is logical
     [nTuples,1]. Thus, if isUniformOutput is true, then values of
     valueVec and isNullVec obtained in general case are concatenated in
     simple column vectors. isValueNullVec indicates, for each tuple,
     whether the entire value, be it a scalar or an array, is null.
   2) 1D arrays are returned as [N,1] arrays, same as multi-dimensional
     arrays with the @ flag in the format spec (see "Field specification
     strings" above). Empty (0D) arrays are returned as [0,0] arrays.

 Examples:

 1. Select all columns from the following table:
 (
   event_id bigint,
   t_date date,
   call_put character(1),
   metric_value double precision[]
 )
 [idSt,dateSt,cpSt,metricSt]=getf(res,'%int8 #date %bpchar %float8[]',...
     0,'t_date',1,2);
 Note that in the first two LHS structures the 'valueVec' field is a
 column vector (double and int64 respectively), while in the last two
 structures 'valueVec' is a cell array. 'isNullVec' is a logical column
 vector in the first three structures and a cell array of logical arrays
 in the last structure.
