---
category: Working with parameters
apipath: '/exec/pqputf'
title: 'Pack a set of parameters in a PGparam structure for a parameterized query'
type: 'PUTF'

layout: null
---

 PUTF packs a set of parameters in a PGparam structure for use with a
 parameterized query

 Usage: pgmex('putf',pgParam,fieldSpecStr,varargin)

 INPUT:
   regular:
     pgParam: uint32 or uint64 [1,1] - C pointer to a PGparam structure
     fieldSpecStr: char - specification for types of fields
   variable:
     fieldVal1: matrix of some type or struct [1,1] - values of first
         field to set
     ...
     fieldValN: matrix of some type or struct [1,1] - values of N-th field
         to set

 Notes:
   1) If some of fieldVal1,...,fieldValN are structures that it is
     assumed that they have the following fields:
         valueMat: matrix of some type;
         isNullMat: logical matrix.
     Both valueMat and isNullMat are of the same size (excluding the case
     when valueMat is string, in this case isNullMat is scalar logical),
     valueMat gives values for the corresponding field while isNullMat
     determines what values are Null. If some fieldValK, K=1,...,N, is not
     a structure, then it is supposed that all elements of a matrix that
     is value for K-th field are not-Null and fieldValK gives immediately
     this value.
   2) If fieldVali is a structure, it may have a field
         isValueNullVec: logical [1,1]
     When isValueNullVec is true, the values of the other fields in the
     structure are ignored. The entire field value, be it a scalar or an
     array, is treated as NULL.
   3) When the format specifies a numeric type other than float8 (double),
     the input can still be of type double, as long as it can be cast
     directly into the specified type. For instance, if the format
     specifies int4, the input can be a whole number of type double, such
     as 5.
   4) pgParam must be initialized before use; this can be done with a
     call to pgParam=pgmex('paramcreate',dbConn). pgParam does not have to
     be empty; subsequent calls to PUTF will add more values to those
     already there.

 Examples:

 param=pgmex('paramcreate',dbConn);

 1. Put a date, a string, a double vector and a double matrix:
 pgmex('putf',param,'%date %varchar %float8[]@ %float8[]',...
     datenum('2015-03-26'),'description',[1;2;3;4],[0.1, 0.2; 0.3, 0.4]);

 2. Put an integer matrix with one null cell, a null value of a boolean
   array type (null::bool[]) and a null value of a varchar type
   (null::varchar):
 arraySt=struct('valueMat',[1, 2; 0, 4],'isNullMat',...
     logical([0, 0; 1 0]));
 nullSt=struct('valueMat',[],'isValueNullVec',true);
 pgmex('putf',param,'%int4[] %bool[] %varchar',arraySt,nullSt,nullSt);

 3. Put a string array, a serialized Matlab object (bytea), and an array
   of serialized Matlab objects (bytea[]):
 pgmex('putf',param,'%text[] %serbytea %serbytea[]',...
     {'foo','bar';'baz','qux'},struct('arr',[1 2 3]),...
     {[10 20 30],'abcd',@sin};

 pgmex('paramclear',param);