---
category: Resources
title: '`exec` function'

layout: null
---
INPUT:
   regular:
     command: char [1,N] - command name, case-insensitive (see the list of
         supported commands below)

 Pointer arguments:

 Some input and output arguments, are pointers to C structures, such as
 PGconnect. The type of these arguments depends on the architecture of the
 implementation: uint32 [1,1] for 32-bit or uint64 [1,1] for 64-bit. These
 pointers often provide a handle for dynamically-allocated resources that
 should be freed when they are no longer needed. Free resources with
 special commands, such as CLEAR and FINISH.

 Field specification strings:

 Commands PUTF and GETF use field specification strings. See
 http://libpqtypes.esilo.com/man3/pqt-specs.html for detailed information,
 as well as command-specific comments below. PGMEX supports many of the
 types in libpqtypes, as well as a few of its own. The following are the
 types supported by PGMEX in GETF and PUTF commands:

            PGMEX               Postgres            Matlab
            -------------------------------------------------
            int2                smallint            int16      
            int4                integer             int32      
            int8                bigint              int64      
            float4              real                single     
            float8              double precision    double     
            numeric             numeric             char [1,N]     
            bool                boolean             logical    
            varchar             varchar             char [1,N]
            text                text                char [1,N]
            bpchar              bpchar              char [1,N]
            name                name                char [1,N]
            xml                 xml                 char [1,N]
            json                json                char [1,N]
            bytea               bytea               uint8 [1,N]
            serbytea            bytea               any type*
            serbytea_wn         bytea               any type*
            date                date                datenum    
            time                time                datenum    
            timetz              timetz              datenum    
            timestamp           timestamp           datenum    
            timestamptz         timestamptz         datenum

 If '@' is added at the end of a type spec, then if the original value is
 not of a variable-length type, the value will be transformed to a column
 vector [N,1] (getf) or a 1D array (putf), regardless of the dimensions of
 the original value.

 An empty array must have the dimensions [0,0] when it is given as an
 argument to putf. When an empty (zero-dimensional) array is read from the
 database, the resulting Matlab array also has the dimensions [0,0].
 
 Variable-length inputs and outputs are string types, such as varchar, and
 byte array types, such as bytea. Scalar values of variable-length types
 are stored in row vectors, and arrays of variable-length types are stored
 in cell arrays. For instance, a [2,2] array of varchar may be given as
 {'foo','bar';'baz','qux'}.
 
 serbytea and serbytea_wn type specs serve to store any Matlab variable as
 a byte array. The serialization and deserialization are performed in PUTF
 and GETF respectively. The corresponding Postgres type is bytea for
 scalars and bytea[] for arrays. As with other variable-length types,
 arrays of variables should be packaged in cell arrays. When serbytea_wn
 type spec is used, PUTF always expects a special structure with NULL
 specifiers on input (see documentation for PUTF below). serbytea is used
 to put "naked" values, i.e. any structure will be interpreted as a Matlab
 variable to be serialized as is. For GETF the specs serbytea and
 serbytea_wn are equivalent.

 Date and time implementations in PGMEX are different from standard
 implementations in libpqtypes. Date and time inputs and outputs are
 Matlab datenums (doubles). Since datenums do not store time zone
 information, time zone for timetz and timestamptz values is assumed to be
 UTC. The schema part of the type spec for PGMEX types is 'pgmex', whereas
 the schema for standard types is 'pg_catalog'. However, it is not
 necessary to specify the 'pgmex' schema in the field spec string.

 Exceptions: The first (component) part of PGMEX exception identifiers is
 'PgMex', followed by the function name and error mnemonic.